# 6.1 ItemReader #

Although a simple concept, an **ItemReader** is the means for providing data from many different types of input. The most general examples include:

- Flat - FileFlat File Item Readers read lines of data from a flat file that typically describe records with fields of data defined by fixed positions in the file or delimited by some special character (e.g. Comma).
- XML - XML ItemReaders process XML independently of technologies used for parsing, mapping and validating objects. Input data allows for the validation of an XML file against an XSD schema.
- Database - A database resource is accessed to return resultsets which can be mapped to objects for processing. The default SQL ItemReaders invoke a **RowMapper** to return objects, keep track of the current row if restart is required, store basic statistics, and provide some transaction enhancements that will be explained later.

There are many more possibilities, but we'll focus on the basic ones for this chapter. A complete list of all available ItemReaders can be found in Appendix A.

**ItemReader** is a basic interface for generic input operations:

	public interface ItemReader<T> {
	
	    T read() throws Exception, UnexpectedInputException, ParseException;
	
	}

The **read** method defines the most essential contract of the **ItemReader**; calling it returns one Item or null if no more items are left. An item might represent a line in a file, a row in a database, or an element in an XML file. It is generally expected that these will be mapped to a usable domain object (i.e. Trade, Foo, etc) but there is no requirement in the contract to do so.

It is expected that implementations of the **ItemReader** interface will be forward only. However, if the underlying resource is transactional (such as a JMS queue) then calling read may return the same logical item on subsequent calls in a rollback scenario. It is also worth noting that a lack of items to process by an **ItemReader** will not cause an exception to be thrown. For example, a database **ItemReader** that is configured with a query that returns 0 results will simply return null on the first invocation of **read**.
