# 6.11 Validating Input #

During the course of this chapter, multiple approaches to parsing input have been discussed. Each major implementation will throw an exception if it is not 'well-formed'. The **FixedLengthTokenizer** will throw an exception if a range of data is missing. Similarly, attempting to access an index in a **RowMapper** of **FieldSetMapper** that doesn't exist or is in a different format than the one expected will cause an exception to be thrown. All of these types of exceptions will be thrown before **read** returns. However, they don't address the issue of whether or not the returned item is valid. For example, if one of the fields is an age, it obviously cannot be negative. It will parse correctly, because it existed and is a number, but it won't cause an exception. Since there are already a plethora of Validation frameworks, Spring Batch does not attempt to provide yet another, but rather provides a very simple interface that can be implemented by any number of frameworks:

	public interface Validator {
	
	    void validate(Object value) throws ValidationException;
	}

The contract is that the **validate** method will throw an exception if the object is invalid, and return normally if it is valid. Spring Batch provides an out of the box **ItemProcessor**:

<bean class="org.springframework.batch.item.validator.ValidatingItemProcessor">
    <property name="validator" ref="validator" />
</bean>

	<bean id="validator"
	      class="org.springframework.batch.item.validator.SpringValidator">
	    <property name="validator">
	        <bean id="orderValidator"
	              class="org.springmodules.validation.valang.ValangValidator">
	            <property name="valang">
	                <value>
	                    <![CDATA[
	           { orderId : ? > 0 AND ? <= 9999999999 : 'Incorrect order ID' : 'error.order.id' }
	           { totalLines : ? = size(lineItems) : 'Bad count of order lines'
	                                              : 'error.order.lines.badcount'}
	           { customer.registered : customer.businessCustomer = FALSE OR ? = TRUE
	                                 : 'Business customer must be registered'
	                                 : 'error.customer.registration'}
	           { customer.companyName : customer.businessCustomer = FALSE OR ? HAS TEXT
	                                  : 'Company name for business customer is mandatory'
	                                  :'error.customer.companyname'}
	                    ]]>
	                </value>
	            </property>
	        </bean>
	    </property>
	</bean>

This simple example shows a simple **ValangValidator** that is used to validate an order object. The intent is not to show Valang functionality as much as to show how a validator could be added.