# 6.12 Preventing State Persistence #

By default, all of the **ItemReader** and **ItemWriter** implementations store their current state in the **ExecutionContext** before it is committed. However, this may not always be the desired behavior. For example, many developers choose to make their database readers 'rerunnable' by using a process indicator. An extra column is added to the input data to indicate whether or not it has been processed. When a particular record is being read (or written out) the processed flag is flipped from false to true. The SQL statement can then contain an extra statement in the where clause, such as "where PROCESSED_IND = false", thereby ensuring that only unprocessed records will be returned in the case of a restart. In this scenario, it is preferable to not store any state, such as the current row number, since it will be irrelevant upon restart. For this reason, all readers and writers include the 'saveState' property:

	<bean id="playerSummarizationSource" class="org.spr...JdbcCursorItemReader">
	    <property name="dataSource" ref="dataSource" />
	    <property name="rowMapper">
	        <bean class="org.springframework.batch.sample.PlayerSummaryMapper" />
	    </property>
	    <property name="saveState" value="false" />
	    <property name="sql">
	        <value>
	            SELECT games.player_id, games.year_no, SUM(COMPLETES),
	            SUM(ATTEMPTS), SUM(PASSING_YARDS), SUM(PASSING_TD),
	            SUM(INTERCEPTIONS), SUM(RUSHES), SUM(RUSH_YARDS),
	            SUM(RECEPTIONS), SUM(RECEPTIONS_YARDS), SUM(TOTAL_TD)
	            from games, players where players.player_id =
	            games.player_id group by games.player_id, games.year_no
	        </value>
	    </property>
	</bean>

The **ItemReader** configured above will not make any entries in the **ExecutionContext** for any executions in which it participates.