## 6.7.1 StaxEventItemReader ##

The StaxEventItemReader configuration provides a typical setup for the processing of records from an XML input stream. First, lets examine a set of XML records that the StaxEventItemReader can process.

	<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
	<records>
	    <trade xmlns="http://springframework.org/batch/sample/io/oxm/domain">
	        <isin>XYZ0001</isin>
	        <quantity>5</quantity>
	        <price>11.39</price>
	        <customer>Customer1</customer>
	    </trade>
	    <trade xmlns="http://springframework.org/batch/sample/io/oxm/domain">
	        <isin>XYZ0002</isin>
	        <quantity>2</quantity>
	        <price>72.99</price>
	        <customer>Customer2c</customer>
	    </trade>
	    <trade xmlns="http://springframework.org/batch/sample/io/oxm/domain">
	        <isin>XYZ0003</isin>
	        <quantity>9</quantity>
	        <price>99.99</price>
	        <customer>Customer3</customer>
	    </trade>
	</records>


To be able to process the XML records the following is needed:

- Root Element Name Name of the root element of the fragment that constitutes the object to be mapped. The example configuration demonstrates this with the value of trade.
- Resource Spring Resource that represents the file to be read.
- Unmarshaller Unmarshalling facility provided by Spring OXM for mapping the XML fragment to an object.

	<bean id="itemReader" class="org.springframework.batch.item.xml.StaxEventItemReader">
	    <property name="fragmentRootElementName" value="trade" />
	    <property name="resource" value="data/iosample/input/input.xml" />
	    <property name="unmarshaller" ref="tradeMarshaller" />
	</bean>


Notice that in this example we have chosen to use an XStreamMarshaller which accepts an alias passed in as a map with the first key and value being the name of the fragment (i.e. root element) and the object type to bind. Then, similar to a FieldSet, the names of the other elements that map to fields within the object type are described as key/value pairs in the map. In the configuration file we can use a Spring configuration utility to describe the required alias as follows:

	<bean id="tradeMarshaller"
	      class="org.springframework.oxm.xstream.XStreamMarshaller">
	    <property name="aliases">
	        <util:map id="aliases">
	            <entry key="trade"
	                   value="org.springframework.batch.sample.domain.Trade" />
	            <entry key="price" value="java.math.BigDecimal" />
	            <entry key="name" value="java.lang.String" />
	        </util:map>
	    </property>
	</bean>


On input the reader reads the XML resource until it recognizes that a new fragment is about to start (by matching the tag name by default). The reader creates a standalone XML document from the fragment (or at least makes it appear so) and passes the document to a deserializer (typically a wrapper around a Spring OXM Unmarshaller) to map the XML to a Java object.

In summary, this procedure is analogous to the following scripted Java code which uses the injection provided by the Spring configuration:

	StaxEventItemReader xmlStaxEventItemReader = new StaxEventItemReader()
	Resource resource = new ByteArrayResource(xmlResource.getBytes())
	
	Map aliases = new HashMap();
	aliases.put("trade","org.springframework.batch.sample.domain.Trade");
	aliases.put("price","java.math.BigDecimal");
	aliases.put("customer","java.lang.String");
	Marshaller marshaller = new XStreamMarshaller();
	marshaller.setAliases(aliases);
	xmlStaxEventItemReader.setUnmarshaller(marshaller);
	xmlStaxEventItemReader.setResource(resource);
	xmlStaxEventItemReader.setFragmentRootElementName("trade");
	xmlStaxEventItemReader.open(new ExecutionContext());
	
	boolean hasNext = true
	
	CustomerCredit credit = null;
	
	while (hasNext) {
	    credit = xmlStaxEventItemReader.read();
	    if (credit == null) {
	        hasNext = false;
	    }
	    else {
	        System.out.println(credit);
	    }
	}

