## 6.9.2 Paging ItemReaders ##

An alternative to using a database cursor is executing multiple queries where each query is bringing back a portion of the results. We refer to this portion as a page. Each query that is executed must specify the starting row number and the number of rows that we want returned for the page.

**JdbcPagingItemReader**

One implementation of a paging ItemReader is the JdbcPagingItemReader. The JdbcPagingItemReader needs a PagingQueryProvider responsible for providing the SQL queries used to retrieve the rows making up a page. Since each database has its own strategy for providing paging support, we need to use a different PagingQueryProvider for each supported database type. There is also the SqlPagingQueryProviderFactoryBean that will auto-detect the database that is being used and determine the appropriate PagingQueryProvider implementation. This simplifies the configuration and is the recommended best practice.

The SqlPagingQueryProviderFactoryBean requires that you specify a select clause and a from clause. You can also provide an optional where clause. These clauses will be used to build an SQL statement combined with the required sortKey.

After the reader has been opened, it will pass back one item per call to read in the same basic fashion as any other ItemReader. The paging happens behind the scenes when additional rows are needed.

Below is an example configuration using a similar 'customer credit' example as the cursor based ItemReaders above:

	<bean id="itemReader" class="org.spr...JdbcPagingItemReader">
	    <property name="dataSource" ref="dataSource"/>
	    <property name="queryProvider">
	        <bean class="org.spr...SqlPagingQueryProviderFactoryBean">
	            <property name="selectClause" value="select id, name, credit"/>
	            <property name="fromClause" value="from customer"/>
	            <property name="whereClause" value="where status=:status"/>
	            <property name="sortKey" value="id"/>
	        </bean>
	    </property>
	    <property name="parameterValues">
	        <map>
	            <entry key="status" value="NEW"/>
	        </map>
	    </property>
	    <property name="pageSize" value="1000"/>
	    <property name="rowMapper" ref="customerMapper"/>
	</bean>

This configured ItemReader will return CustomerCredit objects using the RowMapper that must be specified. The 'pageSize' property determines the number of entities read from the database for each query execution.

The 'parameterValues' property can be used to specify a Map of parameter values for the query. If you use named parameters in the where clause the key for each entry should match the name of the named parameter. If you use a traditional '?' placeholder then the key for each entry should be the number of the placeholder, starting with 1.

**JpaPagingItemReader**

Another implementation of a paging ItemReader is the JpaPagingItemReader. JPA doesn't have a concept similar to the Hibernate StatelessSession so we have to use other features provided by the JPA specification. Since JPA supports paging, this is a natural choice when it comes to using JPA for batch processing. After each page is read, the entities will become detached and the persistence context will be cleared in order to allow the entities to be garbage collected once the page is processed.

The JpaPagingItemReader allows you to declare a JPQL statement and pass in a EntityManagerFactory. It will then pass back one item per call to read in the same basic fashion as any other ItemReader. The paging happens behind the scenes when additional entities are needed. Below is an example configuration using the same 'customer credit' example as the JDBC reader above:

	<bean id="itemReader" class="org.spr...JpaPagingItemReader">
	    <property name="entityManagerFactory" ref="entityManagerFactory"/>
	    <property name="queryString" value="select c from CustomerCredit c"/>
	    <property name="pageSize" value="1000"/>
	</bean>

This configured ItemReader will return CustomerCredit objects in the exact same manner as described by the JdbcPagingItemReader above, assuming the Customer object has the correct JPA annotations or ORM mapping file. The 'pageSize' property determines the number of entities read from the database for each query execution.

**IbatisPagingItemReader**

**[Note]	Note**
This reader is deprecated as of Spring Batch 3.0.

If you use IBATIS for your data access then you can use the IbatisPagingItemReader which, as the name indicates, is an implementation of a paging ItemReader. IBATIS doesn't have direct support for reading rows in pages but by providing a couple of standard variables you can add paging support to your IBATIS queries.

Here is an example of a configuration for a IbatisPagingItemReader reading CustomerCredits as in the examples above:

	<bean id="itemReader" class="org.spr...IbatisPagingItemReader">
	    <property name="sqlMapClient" ref="sqlMapClient"/>
	    <property name="queryId" value="getPagedCustomerCredits"/>
	    <property name="pageSize" value="1000"/>
	</bean>

The IbatisPagingItemReader configuration above references an IBATIS query called "getPagedCustomerCredits". Here is an example of what that query should look like for MySQL.

	<select id="getPagedCustomerCredits" resultMap="customerCreditResult">
	    select id, name, credit from customer order by id asc LIMIT #_skiprows#, #_pagesize#
	</select>


The _skiprows and _pagesize variables are provided by the IbatisPagingItemReader and there is also a _page variable that can be used if necessary. The syntax for the paging queries varies with the database used. Here is an example for Oracle (unfortunately we need to use CDATA for some operators since this belongs in an XML document):

	<select id="getPagedCustomerCredits" resultMap="customerCreditResult">
	    select * from (
	      select * from (
	        select t.id, t.name, t.credit, ROWNUM ROWNUM_ from customer t order by id
	       )) where ROWNUM_ <![CDATA[ > ]]> ( #_page# * #_pagesize# )
	    ) where ROWNUM <![CDATA[ <= ]]> #_pagesize#
	</select>
