## 12.2 Setup

JSR-352 requires a very simple path to executing a batch job. The following code is all that is needed to execute your first batch job:

JSR-352 要用到一个很简单的 path 来执行批处理作业。下面的代码就是执行一个批处理作业所需要的一切:

	JobOperator operator = BatchRuntime.getJobOperator();
	jobOperator.start("myJob", new Properties());

While that is convenient for developers, the devil is in the details. Spring Batch bootstraps a bit of infrastructure behind the scenes that a developer may want to override. The following is bootstrapped the first time `BatchRuntime.getJobOperator()` is called:

虽然对于开发人员来说很方便, 但其中的坑可能埋藏在细节中。Spring Batch 在启动时会加载一些基础类, 开发者可能需要重写其中的某些部分。在首次调用 “`BatchRuntime.getJobOperator()`” 时会加载下面这些对象:



<table ><colgroup><col align="left"><col align="left"><col align="left"></colgroup><tbody><tr><td  align="left">
<span class="bold"><strong>Bean Name</strong></span>
</td><td  align="left">
<span class="bold"><strong>Default Configuration</strong></span>
</td><td >
<span class="bold"><strong>Notes</strong></span>
</td></tr><tr><td  align="left">
dataSource
</td><td  align="left">
Apache DBCP BasicDataSource with configured values.
</td><td >
By default, HSQLDB is bootstrapped.
</td></tr><tr><td  align="left">
<code class="code">transactionManager</code>
</td><td  align="left">
<code class="code">org.springframework.jdbc.datasource.DataSourceTransactionManager</code>
</td><td >
References the dataSource bean defined above.
</td></tr><tr><td  align="left">
A Datasource initializer
</td><td  align="left">
</td><td >
This is configured to execute the scripts configured via the
<code class="code">batch.drop.script</code> and <code class="code">batch.schema.script</code> properties. By
default, the schema scripts for HSQLDB are executed. This behavior can be disabled via
<code class="code">batch.data.source.init</code> property.
</td></tr><tr><td  align="left">
jobRepository
</td><td  align="left">
A JDBC based <code class="code">SimpleJobRepository</code>.
</td><td >
This <code class="code">JobRepository</code> uses the previously mentioned data source and transaction
manager. The schema's table prefix is configurable (defaults to BATCH_) via the
<code class="code">batch.table.prefix</code> property.
</td></tr><tr><td  align="left">
jobLauncher
</td><td  align="left">
<code class="code">org.springframework.batch.core.launch.support.SimpleJobLauncher</code>
</td><td >
Used to launch jobs.
</td></tr><tr><td  align="left">
batchJobOperator
</td><td  align="left">
<code class="code">org.springframework.batch.core.launch.support.SimpleJobOperator</code>
</td><td >
The <code class="code">JsrJobOperator</code> wraps this to provide most of it's functionality.
</td></tr><tr><td  align="left">
jobExplorer
</td><td  align="left">
<code class="code">org.springframework.batch.core.explore.support.JobExplorerFactoryBean</code>
</td><td >
Used to address lookup functionality provided by the <code class="code">JsrJobOperator</code>.
</td></tr><tr><td  align="left">
jobParametersConverter
</td><td  align="left">
<code class="code">org.springframework.batch.core.jsr.JsrJobParametersConverter</code>
</td><td >
JSR-352 specific implementation of the <code class="code">JobParametersConverter</code>.
</td></tr><tr><td  align="left">
jobRegistry
</td><td  align="left">
<code class="code">org.springframework.batch.core.configuration.support.MapJobRegistry</code>
</td><td >
Used by the <code class="code">SimpleJobOperator</code>.
</td></tr><tr><td style="border-right: 0.5pt solid ; " align="left">
placeholderProperties
</td><td style="border-right: 0.5pt solid ; " align="left">
<code class="code">org.springframework.beans.factory.config.PropertyPlaceholderConfigure</code>
</td><td style="" align="left">
Loads the properties file <code class="code">batch-${ENVIRONMENT:hsql}.properties</code> to configure
the properties mentioned above. ENVIRONMENT is a System property (defaults to hsql)
that can be used to specify any of the supported databases Spring Batch currently
supports.
</td></tr></tbody></table>


> ###提示
> 
> None of the above beans are optional for executing JSR-352 based jobs. All may be overriden to provide customized functionality as needed.
>
> 对基于 JSR-352的 job来说,上面的这些 bean 都是必须具备的。d当然,开发者可以根据需要重载某些类,以提供自定义的功能。


