## 12.4 Batch Properties

### 12.4.1 Property Support

JSR-352 allows for properties to be defined at the Job, Step and batch artifact level by way of configuration in the JSL. Batch properties are configured at each level in the following way:

	<properties>
	    <property name="propertyName1" value="propertyValue1"/>
	    <property name="propertyName2" value="propertyValue2"/>
	</properties>

Properties may be configured on any batch artifact.


###12.4.2 @BatchProperty annotation

Properties are referenced in batch artifacts by annotating class fields with the @BatchProperty and @Inject annotations (both annotations are required by the spec). As defined by JSR-352, fields for properties must be String typed. Any type conversion is up to the implementing developer to perform.

An `javax.batch.api.chunk.ItemReader` artifact could be configured with a properties block such as the one described above and accessed as such:

	public class MyItemReader extends AbstractItemReader {
	    @Inject
	    @BatchProperty
	    private String propertyName1;
	
	    ...
	}

The value of the field "propertyName1" will be "propertyValue1"

###12.4.3 Property Substitution

Property substitution is provided by way of operators and simple conditional expressions. The general usage is #{operator['key']}.

Supported operators:

- jobParameters - access job parameter values that the job was started/restarted with.
- jobProperties - access properties configured at the job level of the JSL.
- systemProperties - access named system properties.
- partitionPlan - access named property from the partition plan of a partitioned step.

	#{jobParameters['unresolving.prop']}?:#{systemProperties['file.separator']}

The left hand side of the assignment is the expected value, the right hand side is the default value. In this example, the result will resolve to a value of the system property file.separator as #{jobParameters['unresolving.prop']} is assumed to not be resolvable. If neither expressions can be resolved, an empty String will be returned. Multiple conditions can be used, which are separated by a ';'.

